docs/se/development/codebase-arch/monorepo/nx/getting-started.mdx, before:

# Getting Started

## Installation

Install Nx CLI on macOS:

```sh
brew install nx
```

## Editor Integration

Install [Nx Console extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for VSCode.


## Creating workspace

Create an empty Nx workspace and install the necessary dependencies using PNPM:

```sh
npx create-nx-workspace@latest nx-demo --ci=skip --packageManager=pnpm --workspaces
```

> [!TIP]
> Migrating your project code to a new Nx workspace is easier than manually adding Nx to an existing codebase and setting it up yourself.


## Adding project

1. Install necessary Nx [plugins](https://nx.dev/plugin-registry) for the project type (Node, React, Angular, etc).
2. Use [generators](./gen-code.mdx) to scaffold a new project from existing templates.
3. Migrate code & tooling configurations  (e.g., TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier) from your existing project if you have one.

> [!TIP]
> If you're migrating your project to use Nx, you can run `nx import` to [import your repository](https://nx.dev/recipes/adopting-nx/import-project) to a test repository. Nx will automatically detect and install the required plugins.

Nx will handle for you:
- ESLint config
- Update Gitignore file
- TypeScript config (type reference)
- VS Code workspace recommended extensions
- Vitest config


## Exploring Workspace

Your workspace is a collection of projects.

Each project has different tasks which can be run.

Projects have dependencies between them and form a graph known as the **Project Graph**.

In addition to the project graph, Nx also tracks the dependencies between tasks as **Task Graph** to determine the way in which the tasks are executed.

Nx provides a UI which shows the information above.

### View all projects

To see all projects in your workspace:
- Open the project graph: `nx graph`
- Look at the Projects pane in Nx Console
- Run `nx show projects`

### View project details

To view details of a project:
- View it in Nx Console
- Run `nx show project <project-name> --web`.

Commit message:

Update documentation for MCP server and Serena integration

docs/se/development/codebase-arch/monorepo/nx/getting-started.mdx, after:

# Getting Started

## Installation

Install Nx CLI on macOS:

```sh
brew install nx
```

## Editor Integration

Install [Nx Console extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/) for VSCode.

The extension automatically manages the MCP server for you. No need for editing `mcp.json`.


## Creating workspace

Create an empty Nx workspace and install the necessary dependencies using PNPM:

```sh
npx create-nx-workspace@latest nx-demo --ci=skip --packageManager=pnpm --workspaces
```

> [!TIP]
> Migrating your project code to a new Nx workspace is easier than manually adding Nx to an existing codebase and setting it up yourself.


## Adding project

1. Install necessary Nx [plugins](https://nx.dev/plugin-registry) for the project type (Node, React, Angular, etc).
2. Use [generators](./gen-code.mdx) to scaffold a new project from existing templates.
3. Migrate code & tooling configurations  (e.g., TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier) from your existing project if you have one.

> [!TIP]
> If you're migrating your project to use Nx, you can run `nx import` to [import your repository](https://nx.dev/recipes/adopting-nx/import-project) to a test repository. Nx will automatically detect and install the required plugins.

Nx will handle for you:
- ESLint config
- Update Gitignore file
- TypeScript config (type reference)
- VS Code workspace recommended extensions
- Vitest config


## Exploring Workspace

Your workspace is a collection of projects.

Each project has different tasks which can be run.

Projects have dependencies between them and form a graph known as the **Project Graph**.

In addition to the project graph, Nx also tracks the dependencies between tasks as **Task Graph** to determine the way in which the tasks are executed.

Nx provides a UI which shows the information above.

### View all projects

To see all projects in your workspace:
- Open the project graph: `nx graph`
- Look at the Projects pane in Nx Console
- Run `nx show projects`

### View project details

To view details of a project:
- View it in Nx Console
- Run `nx show project <project-name> --web`.
