docs/se/architecture/eda.mdx, before:

# Event-Driven Architecture

## Overview

Event-Driven Architectures (EDA) is an architecture paradigm where the flow and actions within a system are determined by the occurrence of specific events.

It's is especially useful in distributed systems and applications that require scalability, responsiveness, and decoupled communication.

EDA use asynchronous communication, leads to loosely coupled components.


## Components

- Event: An immutable notification of a change in state, such as `OrderPlaced` or `UserRegistered`
- Event Producer: Component that creates and publishes events; it shouldn't have knowledge of downstream consumers of the events
- Event Consumer: Component that consumes and processes based on events
- Event Broker: Accepts events and either pushes to (or is pulled from by) consumers


## Benefits

1. **Decoupling**. Publishers and subscribers are completely independent.
2. **Scalability**. Publishers, subscribers, and brokers can scale independently.
3. **Resilience**. If a subscriber down, events can be queued and retained for later processing.
4. **Responsiveness**. The publisher can quickly fire an event and move on, not waiting for downstream processing.


## Challenges

1. **Single point of failure**. The broker can be a single point of failure if not made highly available.
2. **Debugging & Tracing Distributed Flows**. Understand the E2E flow of an operation triggered by an event can be complex.
3. **Eventual Consistency** Data consistency across services is achieved over time, not instantaneously. UX must be designed to handle this.
4. **Idempotency**. Subscribers must often be designed to handle duplicate messages gracefully.


## Patterns

There are several event-driven architecture patterns:
1. Event notification: it's a notification that something has occurred
2. Event-carried state transfer: similar to Event Notification but also contains the state
3. Event sourcing: when every single change of state is a submitted event such that the events make up the state of the whole system
4. Command and Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS): a pattern to segregate reading and writing. The informational events are segregated from the actual commands to make changes


## Communication types

### Pub/Sub

Allows a producer to publish to specific topics without a notion of what is subscribed.

Consumers can subscribe to that particular event topic.

Amazon SNS is the AWS-managed service for this.


### Point-to-point

When a producer will send a message for a particular consumer, it might push the event to a queue.

The consumer can then pull from that queue.


### Streaming

Similar to a queue system.

Data is continuously pushed to a stream and consumers need to pull that data.


## Choreographed vs. orchestration

**Choreography** is when the events flow through different services in a system without a higher level of control.

*For example, an `OrderPlaced` event then causes an `OrderPicked` and packed event, which itself causes an `OrderShipped` event.*

**Orchestration** is when there is a central system controlling the interactions.

*You may design a single order orchestrator that calls each service in the right order and ensures each action is taken as appropriate.*


## Use Cases

- Microservices
- E-commerce systems
- Real-time monitoring
- Social networks
- Supply chain management
- Infrastructure automation

Commit message:

update Event-driven architecture doc

docs/se/architecture/eda.mdx, after:

# Event-Driven Architecture

## Overview

Event-Driven Architectures (EDA) is an architecture paradigm where the flow and actions within a system are determined by the occurrence of specific events.

EDA use asynchronous communication, leads to loosely coupled components.


## Components

An Event is an immutable statement of a fact or a change., such as `OrderPlaced` or `UserRegistered`.

In an Event-Driven Architecture, we have three components:

- Event Emitters/Producer: Component that creates and publishes events; it shouldn't have knowledge of downstream consumers of the events
- Event Consumer: Component that consumes and processes based on events
- Message Broker: Accepts events and either pushes to (or is pulled from by) consumers


## Benefits

1. **Decoupling**. Services don't need to know about each other's API. All messages are exchanged asynchronously.
2. **Scalability**. Services can scale independently. More services can be added to the system without any changes.
3. **Resilience**. If a Consumer down, events can be queued and retained for later processing.
4. **Responsiveness**. The publisher can quickly fire an event and move on, not waiting for downstream processing.
5. **Support Real Time Stream Analysis**. EDA allows analyze streams of data, detect patterns, and act upon them in real time.


## Challenges

1. **Single point of failure**. The broker can be a single point of failure if not made highly available.
2. **Debugging & Tracing Distributed Flows**. Understand the E2E flow of an operation triggered by an event can be complex.
3. **Eventual Consistency** Data consistency across services is achieved over time, not instantaneously. UX must be designed to handle this.
4. **Idempotency**. Subscribers must often be designed to handle duplicate messages gracefully.


## Patterns

There are several event-driven architecture patterns:
1. [Event sourcing](../system-design/patterns/event-sourcing.mdx): when every single change of state is a submitted event such that the events make up the state of the whole system
2. [CQRS](../system-design/patterns/cqrs.mdx): a pattern to segregate reading and writing. The informational events are segregated from the actual commands to make changes
3. Event notification: it's a notification that something has occurred
4. Event-carried state transfer: similar to Event Notification but also contains the state


## Communication types

### Pub/Sub

Allows a producer to publish to specific topics without a notion of what is subscribed.

Consumers can subscribe to that particular event topic.

Amazon SNS is the AWS-managed service for this.


### Point-to-point

When a producer will send a message for a particular consumer, it might push the event to a queue.

The consumer can then pull from that queue.


### Streaming

Similar to a queue system.

Data is continuously pushed to a stream and consumers need to pull that data.


## Choreographed vs. orchestration

**Choreography** is when the events flow through different services in a system without a higher level of control.

*For example, an `OrderPlaced` event then causes an `OrderPicked` and packed event, which itself causes an `OrderShipped` event.*

**Orchestration** is when there is a central system controlling the interactions.

*You may design a single order orchestrator that calls each service in the right order and ensures each action is taken as appropriate.*


## Use Cases

- Microservices
- E-commerce systems
- Real-time monitoring
- Social networks
- Supply chain management
- Infrastructure automation
