docs/se/architecture/multi-tier.mdx, before:

# Multi-Tier Architecture

## Introduction

The Multi-Tier Architecture organizes the system into multiple **physical** and **logical** tiers.

The **logical separation** limits the scope of responsibility on each tier.

The **physical separation** allows each tier to be deployed, upgraded, and scaled separately by different teams.


## Multi-Tier vs Multilayer Architecture

Multi-Tier and Multilayer architecture are two different concepts.

Multi layered architecture:
- Refers to the internal separation inside a single application into multiple logical layers.
- Despite being logically separated, it still run as a single unit at runtime, and is considered as a single tier.

Multi-Tier Architecture: applications in each tier physically run on different infrastructure.


## Restrictions

To keep the system clean and maintainable, this architecture follows two key restrictions:

1. **Client-Server Model**. Each tier only talks to the one directly above or below it.
2. **No Skipping Tiers**. A tier should not bypass the one next to it to talk directly to a non-adjacent tier.


## Three-Tier Architecture

The most common Multi-Tier architectural variation for client-server, web-based services.

### Presentation Tier

Responsibilities:
- Displays information to the user.
- Handles user interaction.

Examples:
- A webpage in a browser.
- A mobile app interface.
- A desktop GUI application.

Important Notes:
- It should not contain business logic (especially in web apps, code in the browser is visible and modifiable by users).


### Application Tier

Also known as Business Tier or Logic Tier.

This is where the actual "thinking" of the application happens.

Provides all the functionality and features:
- Processing the data that comes from the Presentation Tier
- Applying the relevant business logic to it


### Data Tier

Manages data storage and retrieval.

Examples:
- Databases (SQL, NoSQL).
- File systems or cloud storage.


### Benefits

1. It fits a large variety of use cases (web-based).
2. Each tier is easy to scale horizontally
3. Easy to maintain and develop because all the logic is concentrated in the Application Tier


### Use Cases

It is the perfect choice for companies whose codebase is:
- Relatively small and not complex
- Maintained by a small team of developers

This includes:
- Early-stage startups
- Well-established companies whose size of the codebase and the organization fit these criteria

Commit message:

update Event-driven architecture doc

docs/se/architecture/multi-tier.mdx, after:

# Multi-Tier Architecture

## Introduction

The Multi-Tier Architecture organizes the system into multiple **physical** and **logical** tiers.

The **logical separation** limits the scope of responsibility on each tier.

The **physical separation** allows each tier to be deployed, upgraded, and scaled separately by different teams.


## Multi-Tier vs Multilayer Architecture

Multi-Tier and Multilayer architecture are two different concepts.

Multi layered architecture:
- Refers to the internal separation inside a single application into multiple logical layers.
- Despite being logically separated, it still run as a single unit at runtime, and is considered as a single tier.

Multi-Tier Architecture: applications in each tier physically run on different infrastructure.


## Restrictions

To keep the system clean and maintainable, this architecture follows two key restrictions:

1. **Client-Server Model**. Each tier only talks to the one directly above or below it.
2. **No Skipping Tiers**. A tier should not bypass the one next to it to talk directly to a non-adjacent tier.


## Three-Tier Architecture

The most common Multi-Tier architectural variation for client-server, web-based services.

### Presentation Tier

Responsibilities:
- Displays information to the user.
- Handles user interaction.

Examples:
- A webpage in a browser.
- A mobile app interface.
- A desktop GUI application.

Important Notes:
- It should not contain business logic (especially in web apps, code in the browser is visible and modifiable by users).


### Application Tier

Also known as Business Tier or Logic Tier.

This is where the actual "thinking" of the application happens.

Provides all the functionality and features:
- Processing the data that comes from the Presentation Tier
- Applying the relevant business logic to it


### Data Tier

Manages data storage and retrieval.

Examples:
- Databases (SQL, NoSQL).
- File systems or cloud storage.


### Benefits

1. It fits a large variety of use cases (web-based).
2. Each tier is easy to scale horizontally
3. Easy to maintain and develop (because all the logic is concentrated in the Application Tier)

### Drawbacks

With the same characteristics of Monolithic architecture, when the codebase grows, it becomes difficult to:
- Troubleshoot
- Add new features
- Build
- Test
- Load in IDE


### Use Cases

It is the perfect choice for companies whose codebase is:
- Relatively small and not complex
- Maintained by a small team of developers

This includes:
- Early-stage startups
- Well-established companies whose size of the codebase and the organization fit these criteria
