docs/web/playwright/projects.mdx, before:

# Projects

## Overview

Projects allow defining multiple configurations from a single Playwright config file.

Each project typically corresponds to a specific browser (like Chromium, Firefox, or WebKit) with its own settings such as viewport size, device emulation, or other browser-specific options.

Use cases:
- **Cross-Browser Testing**. Run tests across Chromium, Firefox, WebKit, ...
- **Environment-Specific Testing**. Run tests against staging and production with different setting
- **Split Test Suites**. Separate smoke tests from full regression tests
- **Global setup and teardown**


## Configuring

Projects are configured in the `playwright.config.ts` file.

```ts title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig, devices } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },

    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
  ],
});
```


## Run projects

You can run tests on all projects or only on a specific project.

```sh
npx playwright test --project=firefox
```

Playwright will run all projects by default.

You can also use VS Code test runner to select projects to run tests.


## Multiple environments

```ts title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  timeout: 60000, // Timeout is shared between all tests.
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'staging',
      use: {
        baseURL: 'staging.example.com',
      },
      retries: 2,
    },
    {
      name: 'production',
      use: {
        baseURL: 'production.example.com',
      },
      retries: 0,
    },
  ],
});
```


## Global setup and teardown

Uses a dedicated **setup project** that runs before others, and optionally a **teardown project** that runs afterward:

```ts title="playwright.config.ts" {6,11}
export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { browserName: 'chromium' },
      dependencies: ['setup db'],
    },
    {
      name: 'setup db',
      testMatch: /global\.setup\.ts/,
      teardown: 'cleanup db', // optional teardown project
    },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',
      testMatch: /global\.teardown\.ts/,
    },
  ]
});
```


```ts title="global.setup.ts"
import { test as setup } from '@playwright/test';

setup('initialize database', async () => {
  console.log('Setting up database...');
  // Your setup logic here
});
```

```ts title="global.teardown.ts"
import { test as teardown } from '@playwright/test';

teardown('clean up database', async () => {
  console.log('Cleaning up database...');
  // Your teardown logic here
});
```

Commit message:

Add debugging and test generation documentation (playwright)

docs/web/playwright/projects.mdx, after:

# Projects

## Overview

Projects allow defining multiple configurations from a single Playwright config file.

Each project typically corresponds to a specific browser (like Chromium, Firefox, or WebKit) with its own settings such as viewport size, device emulation, or other browser-specific options.


## Use cases

- **Specify test dependency**. Setup tests that run before other tests
- **Global setup and teardown**. For tasks that need to run only once before all tests (like seeding a database)
- **Cross-Browser Testing**. Run tests across Chromium, Firefox, WebKit, ...
- **Environment-Specific Testing**. Run tests against staging and production with different setting
- **Split Test Suites**. Separate smoke tests from full regression tests


## Configuring

Projects are configured in the `playwright.config.ts` file.

```ts title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig, devices } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },

    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
  ],
});
```


## Run projects

You can run tests on all projects or only on a specific project.

```sh
npx playwright test --project=firefox
```

Playwright will run all projects by default.

You can also use VS Code test runner to select projects to run tests.


## Multiple environments

```ts title="playwright.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  timeout: 60000, // Timeout is shared between all tests.
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'staging',
      use: {
        baseURL: 'staging.example.com',
      },
      retries: 2,
    },
    {
      name: 'production',
      use: {
        baseURL: 'production.example.com',
      },
      retries: 0,
    },
  ],
});
```


## Global setup and teardown

Uses a dedicated **setup project** that runs before others, and optionally a **teardown project** that runs afterward:

```ts title="playwright.config.ts" {6,11}
export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { browserName: 'chromium' },
      dependencies: ['setup db'],
    },
    {
      name: 'setup db',
      testMatch: /global\.setup\.ts/,
      teardown: 'cleanup db', // optional teardown project
    },
    {
      name: 'cleanup db',
      testMatch: /global\.teardown\.ts/,
    },
  ]
});
```


```ts title="global.setup.ts"
import { test as setup } from '@playwright/test';

setup('initialize database', async () => {
  console.log('Setting up database...');
  // Your setup logic here
});
```

```ts title="global.teardown.ts"
import { test as teardown } from '@playwright/test';

teardown('clean up database', async () => {
  console.log('Cleaning up database...');
  // Your teardown logic here
});
```
