docs/web/ssg/rspress/customization.mdx, before:

# Customization

## Logo (top left)

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#top-left-corner-logo


## Favicon

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#favicon


## Homepage logo

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#homepage-logo


## Navbar

You can define navigation menu item in `themeConfig.nav`.

Another way to customize the Navbar is modifying the `_meta.json` in the root directory (typically the `docs` directory)

```json title="_meta.json"
[
  {
    "text": "Guide",
    "link": "/guides/introduction",
    "activeMatch": "^/guides/"
  }
]
```

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/navbar


## Sidebar

To customize the Sidebar (on the left side of the page), modify the `_meta.json` in the subdirectory of the document root directory

Basic items with label extracted from the h1 title in the document:
```json title="_meta.json"
[
  "page1",
  "page2",
  "page3"
]
```

File navigation item:

```ts
{
  type: 'file';
  name: string; // file name
  label?: string;
  tag?: string;
  overviewHeaders?: number[];
  context?: string;
}
```

Directory navigation item:

```ts
{
  type: 'dir';
  name: string;
  label?: string;
  collapsible?: boolean;
  collapsed?: boolean;
  tag?: string;
  overviewHeaders?: number[];
  context?: string;
}
```

Divider:

```ts
{
  type: 'divider';
  dashed?: boolean;
}
```

Section header:

```ts
{
  type: 'section-header';
  label: string;
  tag?: string;
}
```

Custom link:

```ts
{
  type: 'custom-link';
  label: string;
  link: string;
  context?: string;
};
```


Add icon before title:
```json title="_meta.json"
{
  "type": "file",
  "name": "introduction",
  "label": "Introduction",
  "tag": "<svg width=\"1em\" height=\"1em\" viewBox=\"0 0 32 32\"><path fill=\"currentColor\" d=\"M4 6h24v2H4zm0 18h24v2H4zm0-12h24v2H4zm0 6h24v2H4z\"/></svg>"
}
```

You can also customize sidebar through [`themeConfig.sidebar`](https://rspress.dev/api/config/config-theme#sidebar) property in the config file.


## Outline

You can set the title of the outline bar on the right using `outlineTitle` config.

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/doc-page#outline-title


## Bottom navigation

With the `prevPageText` and `nextPageText` config, you can set the previous/next page text.

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/doc-page#previousnext-page-text


## Show Last Update Time

```ts title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    lastUpdated: true,
  },
});
```


## Show Scroll to top

```ts title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    enableScrollToTop: true,
  },
});
```


## Add global component

You can add some custom global components to the page, like **Back to top** button.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#custom-global-components


## Add custom style

You may add global styles on top of the theme UI through `globalStyles` configuration item.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#custom-styles

You can also add [Tailwind CSS](https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#tailwind-css) to your site.


## Change page layout

You can specify the layout structure of a page using the `pageType` field in the frontmatter to :

```md title="foo.mdx"
---
pageType: custom
---
```

```tsx title="foo.tsx"
export const frontmatter = {
  // Declare layout type
  pageType: 'custom',
};
```

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#using-pagetype


To turn page's components (navbar, sidebar, ...) on/off, you can define them in frontmatter:

```
---
navbar: false
sidebar: false
outline: false
footer: false
globalUIComponents: false
---
```


## Add custom metadata

In `rspress.config.ts`, you can custom HTML's metadata in `head` tag for all pages.

You can also customize individual page's metadata using frontmatter:

```
---
title: This is title
description: This is description
---
```

This will add `<meta name="description" content="This is description">` to `<head>` tag.


## Add custom HTML

You can add custom html through `builderConfig.html.tags`  configuration item.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/ssg#adding-custom-site-content


## Disable Search Engine

Disable Search Engine from indexing the site (for private doc):

```js title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  builderConfig: {
    html: {
      tags: [
        // tells search engines not to index the page
        {
          tag: 'meta',
          attrs: {
            name: 'robots',
            content: 'noindex'
          },
        }
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

## Fix Unicode Heading

Problem: for headings that contain Unicode characters, the outline anchors will be html-encoded, lead to wrong link in the outline side bar. 

To fix the issue, [disable the Rust compiler](https://rspress.rs/guide/basic/use-mdx#disabling-the-rust-version-compiler) of Rspress:

```js title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    mdxRs: false,
  }
});
```

Commit message:

change headings of rspress doc

docs/web/ssg/rspress/customization.mdx, after:

# Customization

## Logo

Change the logo displayed in top left corner.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#top-left-corner-logo


## Favicon

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#favicon


## Homepage logo

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/static-assets#homepage-logo


## Navbar

You can define navigation menu item in `themeConfig.nav`.

Another way to customize the Navbar is modifying the `_meta.json` in the root directory (typically the `docs` directory)

```json title="_meta.json"
[
  {
    "text": "Guide",
    "link": "/guides/introduction",
    "activeMatch": "^/guides/"
  }
]
```

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/navbar


## Sidebar

To customize the Sidebar (on the left side of the page), modify the `_meta.json` in the subdirectory of the document root directory

Basic items with label extracted from the h1 title in the document:
```json title="_meta.json"
[
  "page1",
  "page2",
  "page3"
]
```

File navigation item:

```ts
{
  type: 'file';
  name: string; // file name
  label?: string;
  tag?: string;
  overviewHeaders?: number[];
  context?: string;
}
```

Directory navigation item:

```ts
{
  type: 'dir';
  name: string;
  label?: string;
  collapsible?: boolean;
  collapsed?: boolean;
  tag?: string;
  overviewHeaders?: number[];
  context?: string;
}
```

Divider:

```ts
{
  type: 'divider';
  dashed?: boolean;
}
```

Section header:

```ts
{
  type: 'section-header';
  label: string;
  tag?: string;
}
```

Custom link:

```ts
{
  type: 'custom-link';
  label: string;
  link: string;
  context?: string;
};
```


Add icon before title:
```json title="_meta.json"
{
  "type": "file",
  "name": "introduction",
  "label": "Introduction",
  "tag": "<svg width=\"1em\" height=\"1em\" viewBox=\"0 0 32 32\"><path fill=\"currentColor\" d=\"M4 6h24v2H4zm0 18h24v2H4zm0-12h24v2H4zm0 6h24v2H4z\"/></svg>"
}
```

You can also customize sidebar through [`themeConfig.sidebar`](https://rspress.dev/api/config/config-theme#sidebar) property in the config file.


## Outline

You can set the title of the outline bar on the right using `outlineTitle` config.

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/doc-page#outline-title


## Bottom navigation

With the `prevPageText` and `nextPageText` config, you can set the previous/next page text.

https://rspress.dev/guide/default-theme/doc-page#previousnext-page-text


## Show Last Update Time

```ts title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    lastUpdated: true,
  },
});
```


## Show Scroll to top

```ts title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  themeConfig: {
    enableScrollToTop: true,
  },
});
```


## Add global component

You can add some custom global components to the page, like **Back to top** button.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#custom-global-components


## Add custom style

You may add global styles on top of the theme UI through `globalStyles` configuration item.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#custom-styles

You can also add [Tailwind CSS](https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#tailwind-css) to your site.


## Change page layout

You can specify the layout structure of a page using the `pageType` field in the frontmatter to :

```md title="foo.mdx"
---
pageType: custom
---
```

```tsx title="foo.tsx"
export const frontmatter = {
  // Declare layout type
  pageType: 'custom',
};
```

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/custom-page#using-pagetype


To turn page's components (navbar, sidebar, ...) on/off, you can define them in frontmatter:

```
---
navbar: false
sidebar: false
outline: false
footer: false
globalUIComponents: false
---
```


## Add custom metadata

In `rspress.config.ts`, you can custom HTML's metadata in `head` tag for all pages.

You can also customize individual page's metadata using frontmatter:

```
---
title: This is title
description: This is description
---
```

This will add `<meta name="description" content="This is description">` to `<head>` tag.


## Add custom HTML

You can add custom html through `builderConfig.html.tags`  configuration item.

https://rspress.dev/guide/basic/ssg#adding-custom-site-content


## Disable Search Engine

Disable Search Engine from indexing the site (for private doc):

```js title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  builderConfig: {
    html: {
      tags: [
        // tells search engines not to index the page
        {
          tag: 'meta',
          attrs: {
            name: 'robots',
            content: 'noindex'
          },
        }
      ],
    },
  },
});
```

## Fix Unicode Heading

Problem: for headings that contain Unicode characters, the outline anchors will be html-encoded, lead to wrong link in the outline side bar. 

To fix the issue, [disable the Rust compiler](https://rspress.rs/guide/basic/use-mdx#disabling-the-rust-version-compiler) of Rspress:

```js title="rspress.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'rspress/config';

export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    mdxRs: false,
  }
});
```
